#summary One-sentence summary of this page.

= Tutorial- emastic=




== Instalation==
Put the following css files into your page:
{{{
 <link  href="css/reset.css" type="text/css">
 <link  href="css/grid.css" type="text/css">
 <link  href="css/type.css" type="text/css">
 <!--[if IE]><link  href="css/ie.css" type="text/css"><![endif]-->

}}}

== CSS Files==

 * reset.css - based on Eric Meyer [http://meyerweb.com/eric/tools/css/reset/ reset.css]
 * grid.css - the core CSS (building all the grids)
 * type.css - basic css formatting
 * ie.css - resolve some IE bugs
 
==How emastic work?==

The grid sistem is based on ems [http://jontangerine.com/log/2007/09/the-incredible-em-and-elastic-layouts-with-css  elastic layout].

The grid sistem is not limited only on ems you can use px or % for the page width. 
(Eg:width:xx em or width:xx px or width:xx %).

The grid is made from blocks from 5em to 75em (1em = 16px). Take a look at the [http://spreadsheets.google.com/pub?key=pXCrVPXw4_XgzS0v_bgZecQ spreadsheet].

There is also one block widh 100% and one for fluid columns. The block can be floated left or right. And that is it!

== legend==
All css classes have min. names in order to preserve space.

 * dl - div left
 * dr - div right
 * ml - margin left
 * mr - margin right
 * hp - hundred percent

(e.g dl20 = div floated left, with width of 20em(320px) 

== Some code==
The basic container is "main" class, by default is 70em(1120px).

Inside the main container we can put 1,2,3,4 or more columns.

If we need 3 columns we can do:

 * 20em + 20em + 30em = 70em or

 * 10em + 30em + 30em = 70em or

 * 50em + 10em + 10em = 70em ...

{{{
<div class="main">

 <div class="dl20"> 20 em </div>
 <div class="dl20"> 20 em </div>
 <div class="dl30"> 30 em </div>

 <br class=clear" />
 
 <div class="dl10"> 10 em </div>
 <div class="dl30"> 30 em </div>
 <div class="dl30"> 30 em </div>

 <br class=clear" />

 <div class="dl50"> 50 em </div>
 <div class="dl10"> 10 em </div>
 <div class="dl10"> 10 em </div>

 <br class=clear" />

</div>
}}}

What if the main container is 80%?

Then we use fluid columns. If we need 3 columns layout we will use 1 fluid and 2 fixed columns.

{{{
<div class="main">

 <div class="dl20"> 20 em </div>
 <div class="dr20"> 20 em </div>
 <div class="fluid"> fluid </div>

 <br class=clear" />

</div>
}}}